everything that you do to drive
customers because I see you
[Music]
everywhere Poppy the weird B2B marketing
strategies I use to drive sales calls
and new customers in this episode you're
going to learn the unusual B2B marketing
strategies I use to drive sales calls
and you customers right from Inbal
marketing to outbound oh and if you want
to join thousands of B2B Legends
enjoying my weekday newsletter for
lesser known SEO and B2B marketing tips
as well as fresh podcast updates head
over to breaking bb.com and hit that
newsletter tab right let's dive into the
episode what I would love to jump
into is breaking down everything that
you do to drive customers because I see
you everywhere
and I want to understand how we're doing
this and what we're doing there's
probably some other stuff that I don't
see all the way from the top of the
funnel EG the SEO man content all the
way down to how this site's been
optimized for conversion does that sound
good sounds cool man happy to happy to
share everything and dive deep as you
wish okay so let's start right at the
top of the funnel like it is like the
sem and there's other iterations there
other characters I think would you say
that's the highest stuff you guys do top
of the funnel wise yeah probably
actually I do other stuff but we can
dive into that let's start with let's
start with LinkedIn and then I can share
some more unusual Outreach methods and
funnel building methods that I do that
you probably aren't even aware of yeah
let's do it so yeah if we if we start
with LinkedIn I mean man some of the
stuff we've thrown out on LinkedIn to to
build awareness and drive customers over
the years is is mental like probably one
of the most ones that stuck out is me
and a basically a Superman costume
pretending to be uh SEO superhero that
we renamed SEO man and I think we've
done four episodes of that so far and
for anyone that's not seen it it's
basically me and a skintight vest SEO
man kind of superhero outfit walking
through my local town in Somerset people
wondering what the heck I'm doing and
it's like a a classic villain story so
I'm usually going it up against the
villain in this case it was about Google
SG update um search generative
experience which was the upcoming AI
update they're rolling out to the
algorithm and the the enemy was the I
think he was called AI boy so it's
basically me running around sharing some
tips while chasing a guy who was uh
pretending to be an AI villain and we
filmed that all chopped up into shorts
and put the long form video along with
some shorts on LinkedIn and I guess it's
just a way of come like inbound or no so
when someone's come to you do they say
we heard about you like do you have
attribution back to se
at there's I take like these days I
never used to do this but when people
mention things on LinkedIn I usually
take a screenshot and just keep that in
like a Google sheet where I just drop
all these screenshots so sometimes I get
a DM like saying I actually found you
through SEO man or I love the episode
you did on this or I love when you do
that and just kind of keep a note so I
know what's getting good feedback or
what people like um but the other funny
thing about SEO man is because there's
there's a scene where I basically run
through a a gate into a field and it
goes from me wearing normal clothes to
chopping into this outfit and I've got
that now as my zoom intro video cuz
before you start a zoom meeting you have
a little video and it's just 10 seconds
of me swapping into my SEO man outfit so
it gets a few Chuckles but yeah we do
all kinds of stuff I mean we do the
standard LinkedIn stuff top of funnel so
just sh me each day maybe doing two
posts sharing actionable SEO tips of
what works what doesn't how I've ranked
Pages unusual ways to convert leads on
your website you know the standard kind
of practical tip tip things um what else
do we do YouTube oh we yeah we we do
YouTube so um
in terms of the content on YouTube we we
did run the podcast and that is a mix at
the moment of guest episodes so just
like this show where I interview kind of
experts in B2B and talk specifically
about their Niche and give give
practical tips walkthroughs guides
breakdowns Etc and then we also do solo
episodes so that's more so where I'll
just share a practical example of maybe
how to rank a website with SEO unusual
page unusual ways to rank websites um
how to convert more leads for your sites
just everything around my Niche which
obviously you could do relevant to your
to your Niche depending on what you do
and how you help and we also answer
questions so if I get questions commonly
come up on sales calls then I'll address
those directly with with a video and a
podcast episode and then as you know the
beauty of that is that it's got so much
replay value so then you can take those
into long form articles chop them up for
LinkedIn posts that is a great way of
coming up with content ideas is is being
on sales calls and then recording
answers to questions because you know by
definition that these are things that
people want to know before buying your
stuff definitely exactly if you're
constantly getting a question or even an
objection like there coming up quite a
lot like why are you guys so expensive
can't I do this alternative to using you
why does this take so long and if you
address those headon not only is it
Evergreen content that's searchable and
things like YouTube and the podcast
platforms but also you can put it on
your website on key pages so rather than
making rather than making sales go
through these objections head on every
time you can put that as a nice little
FAQ section within the relevant page
whether that's a feature offer
integration service you can also put the
video and it's going to save sales time
in the long run because then people will
watch that or check out and read the
content first or view it and then it
saves them a bit of pain on sales cools
so not only are we creating content that
can be used that can be discovered e top
of the funnel we're also shortening our
sales
cycle that's the way and then
potentially even reducing sales rep
churn because they're going to be less
bored about their job because they have
to repeat all the same
questions exactly I mean that's I mean I
don't want to make this episode purely
about website but ultimately your
website should help yourselves people as
much as possible as well as your target
clients so it should remove remove
friction really it's like addressing
common questions pain points problems
ultimately so it can give prospects that
are on your site the information that
they care about learning quickly and at
the same time save your Sal team a lot
of time waste sending out PDFs or videos
or answering questions and all that
boring stuff they don't want to be doing
so it's uh yeah a lot of good stuff
there do the podcast if I want to jump
back to SEO man MH if someone else
listening to this whether a marketer or
founder entrepreneur wants to do
something similar in their Niche how
like what's the process like first you
have to come with the idea and then how
do you actually go and produce these
videos we've done so many now like we've
done SEO fellas we've done I think we've
done an SEO Mafia one we've done SEO
mans we've done so many obscure things
just spin-offs of uh different film
series and stuff so I suppose it's the
point that we're really trying to do is
stand out um because as you'll see on
LinkedIn the stuff that tends to get the
most attention is a bit different it's
differentiated from everything else you
see so that was the the focus point we
don't want dull fluff boring fluffy
content so that was the initial goal so
you want to think in our case it was a
mix of being
entertaining stand out but also
educational so we weave in some tips in
these videos so in your case think of it
doesn't actually matter as long as it's
different to what everyone else in your
industry does so it could be a superhero
it could be like guy called Tim Davidson
I think he's a director that cuts fruit
while sharing B2B marketing tips what is
something that you can do on camera
that's a bit different like it doesn't
necessarily have to be in a superhero
outfit it could be you chopping fruit it
could be you playing your guitar it
could be you outside setting up a little
shop watching people go by it could be
like I'm planning to do where I go up to
the street and ask people unusual
questions that have no idea about B2B
marketing but I'm going to ask them
about B2B marketing to see the reaction
what is something you can do that's
different
and at the same time in between share
some share a few tips so it's it's
actually relevant to your Niche and
share some ideas um and what we normally
do is just draft a few bullet points on
a Google doc come up with a concept so
we brainstorm maybe a couple of us an
idea draft a few bullet points on a
Google doc meet up the morning in the C
for some coffee and just flash it out a
bit more and then we'll literally record
it on the day and then we'll probably
edit on the day get up on YouTube get up
on the LinkedIn make some shorts so it's
all done within 24 hours usually
wow there we go guys gonna have to think
of something for like the
B2B B2B podcast space maybe something oh
we need an enemy that's what I liked
about the the Recon one it's like AI boy
uh AI is enemy which is timely for SEO
we haven't obviously discussed what you
guys do for Google organic at the top of
the
funnel yeah yeah yeah so I I can talk a
lot to bottom of the funnel because I
believe SEO should always start with a
bottom up approach rather than article
but yeah I suppose higher up the funnel
I'm not a big proponent I'm not a big
fan really of creating how to SEO
content because I think you rank for
like you rank for like best web
development agency England or something
don't you yeah I mean web Choice ranks
for like web development company um B2B
SEO company SAS web design fintech web
design like a bunch of kind of bottom of
the funnel decent terms that actually
drive qualified leads oh yeah so that's
more bottom of the funnel isn't it yeah
exactly but whereas if you were to go I
suppose you could go higher up the
funnel from a SAS standpoint Tom and you
could look at keywords like um if you're
let's say calendar tool provider you
could look at like if you say you're a
revenue hero or chili Piper you might
look at chili Piper Alternatives or
calendar Alternatives or whatever your
main competitors are and build
Alternatives Pages for those um which is
kind of midf funnel SEO stuff and that's
basically usually when you Google an
Alternatives or a versus keyword like
cend Le versus Chili Piper in the in the
calendar booking tool space it's aisal
so it's like top 10 or top 15 um
Alternatives and you usually position
your offer as the top and then do a
write up on all the others um and quite
often those alternatives are are
listicle based articles so that is one
way that I like to do um quite often
those are quite easy to surpass in the
sense that you can just look at what the
competitors are doing that rank number
one organic look for where they fall
short maybe they've only got 10
Alternatives and then you you absolutely
smash it out the water you do 25 you do
a more detailed write up you add some
social proof in between um maybe you do
a lead magnet for people to check out
your podcast because the thing is what
if you're focusing on article kind of
informative based SEO a lot of those
prospects aren't ready to have a sales
demo or sales convo yet so you want to
warm them up with maybe check out our
resource check out our YouTube check out
our podcast um it's not until you get to
bottom of the final SEO where people are
ready for a sales cool if that makes
sense makes total sense so you guys
don't really invest much in these like
articles that are going to be really
high up that may not lead to
anything not so much yeah so we we don't
do a ton top of funnel SEO and when I
say top of funnel SEO I mean like
informative things like top ways to do X
or how to do y or what to consider
before doing Zed those kind of fluffy
articles one because they're more
focused on driving traffic rather than
sales conversations um because people
quite often will search those things get
the answer from your article then jump
off um and and two because when Google
rolls out Google sge search generator of
experience that's going to wipe out a
lot of those easy to answer questions
because the results will quite literally
be shown above the fold when you Google
the question so if you're focusing your
content on fluffy questions Google's
going to kill your traffic most likely
because it'll just get answered
instantly with AI and the results so
it's something to be aware
of that makes total sense you always see
like SEO or like content marketing
manager showing there
Google search console screenshots with
like organic traffic going up to the
right which is great if I love I have
those charts as well but then surely the
CEO is just being like okay so how many
leases do we generate and then we're
like nothing but we got traffic um
exactly that's super interesting I was I
was potentially goingon to ask our head
of growth to write some top of the
funnel how two articles been out
probably not based on that Insight I
it's not I'm not saying definitely don't
do them but I'm saying don't do the
simple ones if it's like a question that
kind of more nuanced more specific to
your Niche it might be good but if
you're doing really vague top level
stuff that could be answered by AI
what's the point it'll probably just get
wiped out um yeah that's that's what I'd
say makes total sense all right so I
think we've probably done anything else
at the awareness stage you guys are
doing that we haven't covered yeah
there's a few so one that I've started
doing a while ago as more of an
experiment on was is actually cold
cooling which I don't know how many
Founders have do this probably not a ton
unless they're in more of the outd down
space so about a year ago I thought I'm
wasting a lot of time on LinkedIn I'm
just scrolling out endlessly yeah I'm
doing one or two posts a day and yes
that builds awareness and yes that
drives inquiries
sure but I could be just dialing some of
my SCP and I thought a dialer is 30
bucks a month I can buy data on a tour
like Lusher for like I don't know 40
cents record why don't I just fire up in
our case look for VPS of marketing
demand generation directors Etc and
start dialing them and lead with the
problems we fix and see if it gets
anything a few months in I wasn't doing
much I wasn't like doing a sick amount
of cold cool I was doing like one hour a
couple times a week when I had time so
how many calls like 20 calls a session N
More than that you can bust out like 60
or so an hour with a dialer um so
literally leading like with a pattern
interrupt like I'll be up front it's a
cold cool um if they give you permission
to speak like can have 30 seconds or you
want to slam the phone if they say yes
then I'll lead with the problems we fix
in our case like often CEOs or VPS of
marketing depending on who I speak to
are frustrated because they're seeing
competitors above them in organic search
when they need the offer or their
website's not converting a steady flow
of traffic into qualified demos or leads
so real pain points that I know are
relevant and then like before I know I
booked a meeting with a a VP of
marketing at a kind of I think 200
million funded SAS company and we sold
them a 80 grand SEO deal no way so I was
like this works I'm gonna carry on
um so I was like this hour that I'm
spending every day messing around on
LinkedIn I could run a couple dials and
as well as all this other marketing I'm
doing instead of sitting on my ass I
could just a few do a few dials while
scrolling LinkedIn on my other screen
and seems to work so if you're a Founder
that's struggling do that super cheap so
do you think that that example the adk
deal you think they were like in the
market for SEO and you were just there
like you got them he he or she liked you
and that's why they gave you the deal
like any more insight as to why that
closed yeah I'll tell you what a lot of
like Mo most things in marketing and
outbound and top of
funnel it's timing relevance and
messaging so all the better order is
messaging relevance and timing right so
could have caught them on another day
and they could have said piss off um or
could have caught them another day and
they said we're already evaluating three
lenders it's like most things it's all
those things timing message and
relevance come into play and you will
like when you're doing outbound just
like if you're doing outbound email or
LinkedIn message they might say that it
sounds relevant but I need to run it
past my head of marketing or call me
back in three months that kind of stuff
so yeah that's something a bit different
that's if you're willing to put the time
in and you don't have to put a lot of
time like an hour or so
every couple days it's a good way to
build top of funnel um and just build up
a
pipeline that's a great story really
great story anything else yeah um so we
do the podcast we do that we do a little
bit of Co calling um obviously LinkedIn
I've got the email list as well so I a
lot of what I didn't mention is a lot of
the content that I put out on LinkedIn
in my posts I'll put PS like grab my
ultimate B2B website Playbook My
ultimate B2B SEO Playbook that then
links in the comments to my gumroad um
platform that's got a few playbooks and
like I think we've had maybe 50 maybe
2,000 of those downloaded and every time
someone downloads them I set them to
free they used to be paid for guides but
then I just made them free so it's more
accessible and then every time someone
downloads one of those they feed into my
email list and I send a daily newsletter
so my daily newsletter yeah and it's
just basically my LinkedIn posts
recycled into short actionable tips
makes a l sense so then that's just
another way to keep top of mind like it
doesn't drive a ton of business but
every time I message people they're like
I'm enjoying your newsletter tips or
thanks for this or whatever um how do
you the if we're doing two LinkedIn
posst a day are you like waking up early
and writing them daily before work or do
you do them in like a batch I honestly
have the worst strategy I'm the opposite
of someone like who is it is Justin roay
the guy that's not Justin Ray the other
Justin the LinkedIn Master Justin I
forgot his name yeah I think I know the
one you're talking about I can't
remember his name he's like the got the
most followers on LinkedIn Justin
something anyway I'm not that so I I'll
sometimes I've got a Notes app on my
iPhone where I just constantly list like
questions I get asked maybe problems
that we we Face objections we get in
sales calls ideas for things and that
will help fuel my
content but most of the time I'm just
waking up in the morning doing thinking
of a post scheding it for 11:00 a.m.
whether that's a tip an idea a story a
question whatever or a video and then
doing similar like 2 or 3 p.m. in the
afternoon doing another one and I
usually alternate between text or video
or image post and just then recycle
those for the for the daily email and so
then in the morning your author will
like take those posts and then format
them into an email and schedule that as
well that's right love it doesn't take
long but it's just just a habit for me
now makes sense all right I I think we
probably should move down the funnel now
because we've taken up a chunk of time
um anything in the middle or should we
skip right to the uh the bottom on the
website yeah I'll give you something
which probably counts as the middle and
that's
Partnerships so I Partnerships have been
really useful and they will be useful
for me moving forward they're a great
route to market right so finding
companies in a complimentary space to
yourselves so for us doing kind of B2B
SEO and B2B websites it makes sense to
partner with like LinkedIn ads agencies
um analytics a agencies CRM companies
Etc companies that go after similar
clients but don't fight for the same
services so then you build relationships
with these folks you basically say look
anytime you get an inquiry for this can
you ship at our way and anytime we get
an inquiry for your offer we'll send
them your way um and that way you don't
even have to pay a kickback fee because
you're sending work each other's way
whereas some companies where there might
not be an opportunity for you to send
them work you might say look we'll give
you a 10% Kickback of deal closed every
time that we win business so what I tend
I I probably do a bit of Outreach most
days really I I'll reach out to two or
three relevant companies on LinkedIn
send them a personalized message just
say is there any opportunity around this
or send them a quick loom video um it's
a really nice way to just build up a
partner
ecosystem I'm hearing with a lot of
hustle like every we banging all the
stuff out that's that's the entrepreneur
founder life though isn't it Tom you you
know the
score if you want to run a
business if you want to run a business
it isn't all kind of uh Sunshine and
Lollipops you go to got to do a lot of
lag work especially in the early days is
your role at the moment just on the
sales and marketing side or do you ever
get involved in like client account
management little bit a little bit in
the um kind of project management and
stuff um my main I I mostly enjoy
strategy content creation and and
getting on sales calls and then messing
around with the marketing as well and
then I'll do a bit of project management
for the bigger
accounts makes total sense all right
let's get to the gold stuff then so
we're doing all this work to get people
ideally to the
site what do we need to do to make sure
the site is ready to take this this
investment in marketing that we're we're
making yeah so know do hourong shows on
this but I'll try and pack it as
detailed as we can into into the website
so most of the time these folks then are
going to check out your website right so
this is what can either make or break
all the blood sweat tears resources cash
that you've spent to drive this
awareness and drive this traffic to to
your B2B website now we need to make
sure that it does a bloody good job of
uh actually building trust and
converting these prospects into
qualified conversations or sales or
demos
so I mean just running through some of
the basics I mean on my podcast I've
interviewed what I don't know 300 plus
B2B execs and what they've told me is
most of the time if they're hopping onto
a website in the B2B sector they want to
get a quick idea of kind of what you do
and how you help along with a kind of
Juicy problem you fix um if you're SAS
tool they want to see the offer in
action they don't want to book a demo to
see that SAS tool they want to see it
there they want to see screenshots they
want to see gifts they want to see
interactive demo on the site maybe using
something like naitch um they don't want
to sales cool to see it then they want
to see some proof of results so they
want to clearly see video testimonials
written testimonials examples of case
studies how you've help results that
you've brought to the table they want to
see your pricing so they don't want to
request a sales cool to know if they can
afford your offer they want to get an
indication of the brackets that you work
to I.E we start at 5K plus um or if
you're SAS tool it's much easier to
group that into buckets um they want to
get their questions answered so they
want to understand like we talked about
earlier Tom so weaving in FAQs into each
of your product service or feature pages
is not only good for overcoming those
objections and helping your sales team
save time but it's also good for SEO
because it provides content that has
real demand that people are going to be
searching for um and on the basis that
you check most of those boxes that I ran
through there they want to make it nice
and easy a nice and easy route to
actually book that cool demo so on your
contact page or book a call Page having
a a calendar there whether that's
calendly or chili Piper Revenue herea
whatever so they can schedule that time
straight away with a a sales expert and
I'm I'm not talking about rooting them
to an SDR that's going to qualify them
hard because your website would have
done a lot of that ground work I want to
send them to a sales engineer or an AE
or someone that knows what they're
talking about and can answer kind of
questions around the offer um they don't
want to fill out a form and then get a
20page questionnaire just to then be
rooted through to an SDR to eventually
go to an a like a week
later so that that's a high level
overview but we can jump into that as
you wish big one on the calendar we
getting super specific here on the
calendar embed on the website do you
think there's a pro or con around having
that public on the site or having that
there something that appears after
someone submits the
form I think that the back and forth can
harm
deals so for example in on the brand
that we'll talk about in a bit that I'm
building out um we'll definitely have a
calendar there just so people can
schedule it straight away um I know
there's some kick but then you have to
be a bit more like when you see the call
com into your calendar you have to
qualify and then potentially delete it
right do you because in this calendar
you can not only can you do the stuff
that I said on your website to
pre-qualify so you can share pricing
processes you can also even have a page
about who you can who you can't help so
you've got all this supporting
information to weed out Tire kickers or
poit poor fit prospects within that
calendar um booking scheduling tool
itself you can also have a couple
supporting questions so they can put
their name their email they can choose
to have a zoom or hangouts cool whatever
but they can also make sure they do a
drop down field like maybe you can ask
questions like can you if you're a
service can you share more about the
service you need um can you confirm the
budget bracket that you've got available
to attack this can you confirm the
urgency of the the project and anything
else that is typically like one of the
first questions you get asked and that
way you can save yourselves team time
and make sure that these prospects are
actually coming in ready to do some
business and so if they fill that out
and book it in but they're not qualified
then you just delete the you don't let
them have a call yeah I mean let's be
honest you are going to get the odd one
of those but that would be the same if
you did a form fill like so if you just
went for an inquiry form you'd find you
get quite a lot of spam and people
messing around around or trying to sell
you Services you sell already like let's
be honest it happens um but this is
doing everything we can to pre-qualify
prospects and save everyone
time makes total sense I think the big
thing that I'm going to come away from
this conversation with two things first
Co calling is back second is this whole
like collecting making sure that when
you ask questions in the sales process
you or whoever's in the sales team that
they're documented and then you create
the answers put them on the site on
social Etc I feel like that's something
that most people don't
do yeah I mean a lot of my Stu you're
right a lot of a lot of B2B companies in
Tech SAS and service-based I guess it's
just a lack of transparency isn't it
because let's be honest like if if I'm I
don't know if you're the same Tom but if
I'm buying a tool or looking to invest
in a certain service then if I'm
flicking on a site I don't want to mess
around and have a kind of long
conversation with a sales rep to be
qualified only to realize that I can't
actually afford the offer and then I've
got to do the same with another company
I'd rather just flick onto their site
understand that they can help me with my
problem my issue or help me get a job
done check that I can afford it flick
through some customer testimonials look
some look about some information about
my get my questions answered and then
book a time with sales if I'm satisfied
with all that I imagine you're probably
the same and I imagine most people
generally are the
same toally agree let's talk about what
I think could be an internet uh Premiere
breaking
B2B yeah so I'm firing up my own
business which is why probably a lot of
this is relevant um kind of going back
to the bootstrap founder life and we're
firing up a new Agency for kind of B2B
SEO and web design and development to
helping Tech and service companies drive
a steady flow of qualified op through
organic search on their website so yeah
that that's coming that's coming to play
um so that's why a lot of this stuff
that I've talked about is is very
relevant and the SEO is something we're
going to slowly build up on the new site
along with all the other strategies to
build awareness and drive ups and
hopefully do some business are you
branding the agency B2B breaking B2B as
well the agency's breaking B2 b.com yeah
podcast and the agen is going to be the
same yeah I wasn't sure about it I was
thinking about before I set up because I
only set up started working on it
recently but I just got a load of
feedback from kind of people on LinkedIn
did a LinkedIn post about it to get
feedback um like I think I did a post a
couple days ago like what do you think
of this tagline which was break I think
our tagline is going to be um break fre
of of B2B marketing or something
like that obviously with the eye blanked
out so it doesn't scare off the search
engines so just wanted to like I talked
about at the start standing out because
so many web agencies and SEO agencies
just have BL names whereas want
something a bit differentiated a bit
like your podcast kind of
title yeah I mean I love it because it
has
alliteration and it also has like the
connotation with Breaking Bad I think
it's uh I think it's awesome so we're
going to be linking to the podcast and
the website below so if anybody needs
help with Google organic or their sites
or cold calling advice then reach out to
Sam and there we have it folks I hope
you enjoyed that one a bit of a
different world where I share some of
the B2B marketing strategies I'm using
to grow breaking B2B and as always if
you want to join thousands of B2B
Legends enjoy my weekday newsletter for
some weird B2B marketing and lesser
known SEO tips then head over to
breaking bb.com and hit that newsletter
Tab and with that I'll catch you on the
next one cheers
[Music]